.TH CLUSTERS 5  "1 February 1986" ISIS "ISIS FILE FORMATS"
.SH NAME
clusters \- ISIS clusters file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/spool/isis/clusters
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I clusters
file tells ISIS long haul package three things: what are the clusters with
which the local cluster will communicate (i.e. this local cluster view
of the wide area system); what are the access points of each cluster;
and what tcp port number to use to contact each access point.

Here's a typical one:
.br
2200
.br
3 norway N:hermod.cs.cornell.edu/0  N:hymir.cs.cornell.edu/2000 0
.br
1 sweden  N:thiazi.cs.cornell.edu/2201 N:sigyn.cs.cornell.edu/0 0
.br
5 usa N:eldir.cs.cornell.edu/2000 N:utgard.cs.cornell.edu/2200 0
.br

Starting at the second line, each cluster is specified by: its 
.I clusterID,
its
.I clusterName,
and a list of its 
.I access points.

The first cluster in this example is named "norway" and
its
.I clusterID
is 3. The 
.I clusterID
and
.I clusterName
of each cluster must be unique toward the wide area system.
.I clusterID
ranges from 0 to MAX_CLUSTERS which is a constant defined in
long_haul.h file.
.I clusterName
is any character string. 

An
.I access point
is specified either by its internet address or
by its internet host name. In the former case, the address is prefixed
by the string "A:", and in the latter case, the internet name is prefixed
by "N:". In both cases, each the access point specification ends with
a number. If different of 0, this number is the tcp port number where
this access point can accept tcp connection. If 0, this access point
will tcp connection connection request on port 2200 (the number in the first line)
which is the default port number.
The port number and thw access point address or name are separated by the 
character '/'.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

