.TH SITES 5  "1 February 1986" ISIS "ISIS FILE FORMATS"
.SH NAME
sites \- ISIS sites file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/spool/isis/sites
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I sites
file tells ISIS three things: what sites the system
is able to run on, what inter-net port numbers to use to
talk to ISIS at each of these sites, and what namespace ``scopes''
each site belongs to.

Here's a typical one:
.br
+ 1:1601,1602,1603 aditi.cs.cornell.edu bldg1,csdept,aditi
.br
+ 2:1601,1602,1603 hymir.cs.cornell.edu bldg1,csdept,hymir
.br
+ 3:1601,1602,1603 thiazi.cs.cornell.edu bldg2,csdept,thiazi
.br
+ 4:1601,1602,1603 sigyn.cs.cornell.edu bldg2,physics,sigyn
.br
+ 5:1601,1602,1603 modi.cs.cornell.edu bldg2,physics,modi
.br

The plus sign just means that the line contains a valid
sites-file entry.
It is followed by the site-number (1-127), a colon,
3 internet port-numbers and the fully qualified site-name for each site.
Finally, a list of zero or more scope names are given for each site -- here, aditi and hymir are
in scopes ``bldg1'' and ``csdept'', etc.
Each is also listed as being in a scope with its own name, so that a 
search for, e.g., ``@aditi:name'' will work.
The scope information is used when a 
.IR pg_lookup (3) 
is done within
the ISIS system: the search will only occur with the scope specified
at the time of the lookup, and if no scope is given, the default is
to search within all the scopes to which the caller's site belongs.

The internet port
numbers can be selected pretty randomly.
The first one is used when ISIS talks to ISIS at another site.
If desired, it can also be given as 0 and the actual
number listed as the 
.I isis/udp
port in the system file 
.IR /etc/services (5)
(e.g. the line labeled ``isis'', with information given as port-no/udp).
The second number tells clients how to contact ISIS at the site
where they run.
It is recommended that this number be listed in /etc/services
in an entry identified as isis/tcp.
The third number is used when ISIS starts up, to do a simulated broadcast to
other ISIS sites on the network.
Again, this can be given as 0, in which case it should
go in the services file as isis/bcast.

For example, the above sites file would correspond to the following three
lines in /etc/services (or /yp/etc/services):
.nf
isis                    1601/udp       # default for ISIS-ISIS communication
isis                    1602/tcp       # for talking to local ISIS.  (might not use TCP!)
isis                    1603/bcast     # how ISIS asks "Is anyone there?"
.fi

All sites normally use the same set of three port numbers.
Port numbers should be picked to not conflict with those used by
other applications.
Numbers in the range 1200 to 1800 should be safe.

The sites file should be located in the directory where ISIS is
to be started up, probably not the root directory because of the
log files ISIS will generate.
Normally, we use 
.IR /usr/spool/isis, 
but you can pick some
other location provided that you tell ISIS what directory you used 
.RI ( -d
option, below).
Normally, all ISIS sites share identical site-files.  If desired, you can place
the sites file in a single well-known place 
on a network file system and specify
its location to ISIS using the
.I -S option to the protocols process.
However, this would prevent ISIS from restarting when the NFS unit is down.

If you change a sites file when ISIS is already running, use the 
.I rescan
command in the 
.IR cmd (1) 
tool to tell ISIS to reread the file.
You only need to issue the command from one site; all sites will
reread the file at the same time.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
isis(1), cmd(1), ISIS(3), netstat(1)
