.\" isis_rexec.3
.\" written by Mark J. Steiglitz
.TH ISIS_REXEC 3 "30 March 1990" ISIS "ISIS LIBRARY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
isis_rexec \- ISIS remote execution facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include """isis.h"""
.PP
.B 
nran = isis_rexec(nwanted, group, sites, prog, args, env, user, passwd, addrs)
.RS
.nf
.B int nwanted;
.B address *group, *addrs;
.B site_id *sites;
.B char *prog, **args, **env, *user, *passwd;
.fi
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B isis_rexec
attempts to start
.I nwanted
instances of the program
.I prog
at the chosen
.IR sites ,
with one attempt made per site.
.B rexec
must be running at those sites.
The arguments to the program are specified by
.IR args ,
which is an argument vector of the form used by
.BR execve ,
and the UNIX environment is specified by
.IR env ,
which is an environment vector of the form used by
.BR execve .

The process is monitored using
.B pg_watch
to make sure it succeeds in joining
the ISIS process group
.IR group .
If the join is unsuccessful, then an attempt will be made to start the process
at another site.
If
.I group
is specified as &NULLADDRESS,
.B isis_rexec
will assume that the program started successfully if the
.B execve
is performed successfully.
This is also the case if the caller of 
.B isis_rexec
does not actually belong to the designated group.

.I prog
is the pathname that will be used to find the program to run.
If
.I prog
is an absolute pathname, then that path only will be used.
If
.I prog
is a relative pathname, the home directory of the user
.I user
will be searched first, if the calling process has been
successfully authenticated.
Then the paths contained in the environment variable PATH when
.B rexec
was started on the remote machine will be searched.

The username that the program will be run under is specified by
.IR user .
This username will also be taken as the username of the process calling
.BR isis_rexec .
If
.B rexec
was compiled with REXEC_ALLOW_RSH defined, then
if the .rhosts file for the username or the /etc/hosts.equiv file for the
remote system is set up so as to allow
.B rsh
from the caller's machine to the destination machine, then the calling process
is said to have been successfully authenticated.
If the username specified is equivalent to superuser (e.g.
.IR root ),
then the above means of authentication is not permitted.
If the calling process has not been authenticated yet, then the username
and the password specified by
.I passwd
are used to perform authentication in the manner of
.BR login .
If authentication is successful, then the program will be run under the
username
.IR user .
Otherwise, it will be run under the userid
.IR nobody .
If
.B rexec
is not running as superuser, then authentication will be ignored and the
program will be run under whatever account was used to start
.BR rexec .
However, if
.B rexec
was compiled with REXEC_REQUIRE_SETUID defined,
then the program will not be run
unless it can be run under the account specified by
.IR user .

After successful completion,
.I addrs
will contain a null-terminated list of process addresses
corresponding to the processes that were created.
The number of processes successfully started will be returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
login(1), rexec(1), rsh(1), execve(2), pg_watch(3)
.SH "BUGS"
On versions of UNIX in which
.B fork
does not work properly (e.g., Apollo UNIX), authentication will be ignored,
and the program will run under whatever userid
.B rexec
was started under.
If REXEC_REQUIRE_SETUID is defined, and
.B rexec
is run as superuser on such a version of UNIX, then it will abort.

If the
.B fork
succeeds, but the
.B setuid
or
.B setgid
fails, and
.I group
is specified as &NULLADDRESS, then
.B rexec
will not report a failure.
This may occur if
.B rexec
attempts to
.B setuid
or
.B setgid
to a negative
UID or GID.
We recommend that you avoid using negative UIDs and GIDs,
especially for username
.IR nobody .
.SH "WARNINGS"
Currently, no authentication of the caller is provided by
.B rexec
on the remote host if
.B rexec
is compiled with REXEC_ALLOW_RSH defined.
This will be fixed in the near future
when a more general authentication service is implemented for ISIS.
Until then, we recommend that
.B rexec
not be compiled with REXEC_ALLOW_RSH defined.
