.TH LH_FILE_XFER_M 3  "1 February 1986" ISIS "ISIS LIBRARY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
lh_file_xfer_m \-- ISIS long-haul file transfer function.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 
#include ``isis.h''
.PP
.B err = lh_file_copy(gname,entry,dest,msg,fname)
.B err = lh_file_move(gname,entry,dest,msg,fname)
.br
.B char *gname, *dest, *fname;
.br
.B int entry;
.br
.B message *msg;
.br
.B lh_file_srcerr_handler(gname, entry)
.B lh_file_dsterr_handler(gname, entry)
.br
.B char *gname.
.br
.B int entry;
.br
.B lh_file_xfer_srcdir(dir);
.B lh_file_xfer_dstdir(dir);
.br
.B char* dir;
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The long haul file transfer primitive is used to send a file to
another group located in a remote ISIS cluster.  This function assumes
that the spooler process is running and that its long haul
communication option is already enabled (see .IR spool(3)).
.PP
A file may be copied or moved to a remote cluster. A file that is
moved is simply deleted after a successful copy.  The source file may
be named in one of two ways:  either absolutely, or relative to the
directory specified in a previous call to
.I lh_file_xfer_srcdir(dir)
at the sending process.
Similarly, the file will be place in the directory specified in a
previous call to
.I lh_file_xfer_dstdir(dir)
at the sending process.
If there was no such call, the file will be placed in
.I /tmp.
 When using NFS, if
your installation has more than one file system, and if you use this
mode, the received file might be put on any of the file systems where
the long_haul facility can accept connections (this is specified in
the long-haul configuration file, which is specified to the spooler to
start it in long-haul mode).
.PP
The basic interface to the facility is via 
.I lh_file_copy(gname,entry,dest,msg,fname),
which
causes the specified file to be transfered to a remote cluster, where the
specified group will be informed by delivery of the \fImsg\fR.
The location where the file was stored may be determined by applying the function
.I get_fname_and_holder(msg)
to this message.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
In a call to lh_file_copy(gname,entry,dest,msg,fname),
.I gname
is the name of the group to whom this file is destined on the remote cluster.
.PP
.I entry
is the entry point of the remote group  where the file will be delivered.
.PP
.I dest
is the name of the remote cluster where is located the destinator group, as
specified in your long-haul configuration file.
In addition to a specific cluster name, the following wild-card 
destinations are also accepted: \fI"all"\fR, \fI"all_clusters"\fR, \fI"allClusters"\fR,
\fI"local"\fR, \fI"local_cluster"\fR, \fI"localCluster"\fR.
\fI"all"\fR, \fI"all_clusters"\fR, and \fI"allClusters"\fR are synonyms and trigger
the sending of the named file to all registered clusters.
\fI"local"\fR, \fI"local_cluster"\fR, and \fI"localCluster"\fR are synonyms too
and trigger the sending of the named file to the local cluster.
.PP
.I msg
is delivered to the remote group once the transfer of the file is completed (using
the specified
.I entry
point).
.PP
.I fname
is the absolute name of the file to be sent.
.PP
To determine where the file was placed, you should call
.I get_fname_and_holder(msg,lname,holder).
Interpretation of the information this routine returns also
requires some knowledge of your NFS configuration.
Here,
.I msg
is the message anouncing the arrival of the file;
\fIfname\fR is a character pointer and returns
the local file name where the file was saved; \fIholder\fR is a character pointer and returns
the name of ISIS site that received the file, as a pointer into the array ISIS calls
site_names[].
Notice that to access the file, you will need an NFS mount from the machine on which
the destination group is running to the NFS on which the spooler received and saved the
file.
If \fImsg\fR wasn't a legitimate message from the file transfer facility, both \fIlname\fR
and \fIholder\fR return a null pointer.
.PP
.I lh_file_move(gname,entry,dest,msg,fname)
is similar, but the file will be deleted after a successful copy.
A file can only be moved to one other cluster, not all others.
.PP
.SH errors
If needed, the long-haul mechanism can report file transfer errors at
both the source and destination clusters.  The routine
.I lh_file_srcerr_handler(gname, entry)
can be called in order to spool error messages to the entry
.I entry
of group
.I gname
when there is an error at a
.I remote
cluster for a transfer request generated at this cluster.  Similarly,
the routine
.I lh_file_dsterr_handler(gname, entry)
can be called to set up an error handler for errors at
.I this
cluster for transfer requests generated elsewhere.
In both routines, when a message is received at the entry, the routine
.I lh_get_error_report(mp,src,dst,cluster,err)
can be called.
.I mp
is the message announcing the error.
.I src
and
.I dst
will be set to the source and destination file names respectively.
.I cluster
will be the other cluster involved in the transfer.
.I err
will be the unix error number indicating the problem.

.SH NOTE
.PP
In the case of a local copy or move, there is no actual data transfer since
this is unecessary. Therefore, the destination group will receive the
absolute name of the file as provided by the sender as result of
the call to \fIget_fname_and_holder()\fR. The holder will be
the sending host.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
spool(3), ISIS(3)
