.TH MSG_PUTFLD 3  "1 February 1986" ISIS "ISIS LIBRARY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
msg_putfld, msg_getfld, msg_gettype \- ISIS message field functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "isis.h"
.PP
.B 
int msg_putfld(msg_p, field_id, format, [, arg ] ... )
.br
.B 
int msg_getfld(msg_p, field_id, pos_p, format, [, arg ] ... )
.br
.B 
int msg_gettype(msg_p, fname, pos_p)
.PP
.RS
.B message *msgp;
.br
.B char *format;
.br
.B int field_id;
.br
.B int *pos_p;
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
An ISIS 
.I message 
consists of a number of 
.IR fields ;
each field comprises a sequence of typed data items.
The 
.IR msg_put (3)
and 
.IR msg_get (3)
functions store and retrieve data in just one of those fields.
However user programs can store and retrieve data in many other fields using
.I msg_putfld
and 
.IR msg_getfld ,
respectively.
Both functions take a 
.I field_id 
argument, a number between 1 and 127, which names the
field to be used.
The 
.I format
argument specifies the number and types of the following arguments 
as described in 
.IR msg_format (3).
The
.I pos_p
argument to msg_getfld should be the address of an integer variable
which msg_putfld will use to remember the current position in the
message field between multiple calls.
This variable should be initialized to 0 before the first call.
The effect of a
.IR msg_rewind (3)
can be achieved by resetting this variable between calls.
If only one call to msg_putfld is desired, pos_p can be specified
as a 
.I NULL
pointer, and msg_putfld will retrieve the specified data items
starting at the beginning of the field.

The routine
.I msg_gettype
returns the data type of the designated instance of the designated
field name.
The type will be an alphabetic code.  msg_gettype returns 0 if the
field/instance is not found.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

msg_putfld returns 0 normally, and -1 if an error is detected, 
leaving an indication of the error in 
.IR isis_errno (3).
msg_getfld returns the number (possibly zero) of data items retrieved
which will be a prefix of the data items requested in the format string.
If an error is detected, -1 is returned and isis_errno is set.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
msg_put(3),
msg_format(3),
msg_printaccess(3),
ISIS(3)
