.TH SITE_ID 3  "1 February 1986" ISIS "ISIS LIBRARY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
site_id, SITE_NO, SITE_INCARN, MAKE_SITE_ID, SITE_IS_UP, my_site_no, my_site_incarn, my_site_id \- ISIS site_id type, functions, and global variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "isis.h"
.PP
.B int SITE_NO(sid)
.br
.B int SITE_INCARN(sid)
.br
.B site_id MAKE_SITE_ID(site_no, site_incarn)
.br
.B int SITE_IS_UP(site_no, site_ncarn)
.RS
.B site_id sid;
.br
.B int site_no, site_incarn;
.RE
.PP
.B int 	my_site_no;
.br
.B int 	my_site_incarn;
.br
.B site_id 	my_site_id;
.br
.B char my_host[64];
.PP
.B sview *site_getview()
.SH DESCRIPTION
An ISIS
.I site_id
is a 16 bit quantity 
identifying a machine that has ISIS running on it.
A site_id consists of two components: a
.I site number
between 1 and 127 which uniquely identifies a physical machine;
and a 
.IR "incarnation number" ,
initially 0, which is incremented each time that machine crashes
and comes back up.
A zero site_id can serve as null value to terminate a site_id list.

site_ids are constructed using the macro
.IR MAKE_SITE_ID ,
and the site number and incarnation number can be extracted using 
the macros
.IR SITE_NO " and " SITE_INCARN
respectively.

The global variable 
.I my_site_id
contains the site_id of the this machine, while
.IR my_site_no " and " my_incarn
contain the corresponding site and incarnation numbers.
.I my_host
contains the full host name of this site.

The ISIS system keeps track of which sites are currently active.
This information is stored in an
.I sview
structure, and can be obtained by calling
.IR site_getview .
Details on the contents of sview are contained in the ISIS
Manual (see ISIS(3)).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ISIS(3), address(3), sites(5)
