.TH CMD 1  "1 February 1986" ISIS "ISIS COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
cmd \- Interactive ISIS control program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cmd [port-number] [command [args ...] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I cmd 
tool
is an interactive program that provides information about and control
of the sites on which ISIS is currently running and the status
of the ISIS processes and process groups.

You start the cmd tool by typing:
.br
    cmd  application-port-number
.br
(The application port number is the number in the second column of numbers
in the
.I sites (5)
file.)
You may leave out the port number, in which cast 
.I cmd 
will try 
to look up the port number in the system file.
.I cmd 
will then prompt you to enter commands.

The following commands are supported:
.TP 10
sites
List the sites in the current site view,
which is obtained from the routine
.IR sv_getview (3).
.TP
list [scope]
Prints 
the name and address of all groups known within a 
specified scope.
If scope is omitted the scope of the current site is assumed.
A scope is specified as 
.IR @name ; 
.I @* 
stands for the global scope.
You may use the form 
.I list @sname:pattern
to list only only groups with
names that match 
.IR pattern.
.I pattern 
consists of ordinary characters, `*', `?', and `[...]'
which are interpreted in the same way as by the unix 
.IR csh (3).
.TP
group group-name
Print a process group view, obtained by calling
.IR pg_getview (3).
.TP
dump 
Prints the current status of the local protocols process.
See the section on dumps in the ISIS manual
on how to interpret this information.
.TP
pr_dump
Dump the protos process to its log file, which is named
<site-no>.log in the ISIS startup directory (see 
.IR isis.rc (5)).
.TP
snapshot
(As root) dumps every process in the
system to log files.
.TP
rescan
Cause all ISIS sites to rescan the sites file.
It should be used if the sites file is changed while ISIS is running.
.TP
shutdown
Cause ISIS to shut down at this site.
.TP
send address [ arg ... ]
Send a command message to a set of processes.
.I send puts the given arguments into a messages and broadcasts the message
to the the set of proceses denoted by 
.I address 
(entry MSG_COMMAND, see "include/cl_cmd.h").  
It waits for replies and prints them.
The address may be specified in one of the following forms:
.br
<site>:<group>:<process>
.br
   denotes the member of <group> at <site> with 
.br
   pid <process>.
.br
<site>:<group>
.br
   denotes all members of <group> at <site>.
.br
<group>
.br
   denotes all members of <group>.

In all of the above forms <group> may be specified as '*' (or left out) in
which case the most recently referenced group (in a 'group' or 'send' 
command)
is used.
Isis system processes may be addressed by leaving out <group> and
specifying <process> as -1, -2, ...  (the symbolic names 'protos', 'rexec'
'rmgr', 'isis', 'news', and 'xmgr' are also recognized).
.TP
help
Print a list of commands and their abbreviations
.TP
help command 
Print more information about a command.
.TP
quit 
Quit the cmd program. (The end-of-file character also exits cmd).

The cmd tool also accepts a sequence of commands,
separated  by commas, on a single input line.
If the cmd tool is invoked as
.br
    cmd [port-number] command arg0 arg1 ...
.br
it will execute the specified command and quit immediately instead
of running interactively.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
isis.rc(5), sites(5),
ISIS(3)
