.TH ISIS 1  "1 February 1986" ISIS "ISIS COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
isis \- ISIS initialization program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B isis	[-A] [-Z] 
.br
	[portnumber] [-Ssitesfile] [-Rrestartfile]
.br
	[-t] [-csiteno/incarn] [-Hsiteno]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I isis
command  initializes the ISIS system at this site,
and then remains in operation to monitor the failure of ISIS
subsystems at this site. Normally the isis command is run
in background mode, i.e. isis&, from a system startup script such
as 
.IR rc.local (8)
so that ISIS is initialized whenever the machine is booted.

The isis command has the following user options:
.TP 10
-Z
Zap. Kill the ISIS system at
.I all 
sites listed in the 
.IR sites (5)
file.
.TP
-A 
Auto restart. Restart the ISIS system whenever it crashes. 

.TP 0
The remaining options are not for general use, and if not 
used with 
extreme care will cause ISIS to initialize incorrectly. 
They are described here 
for completeness:
.TP 10
portnumber
Use this port number to broadcast to other sites during 
initialization to see if they are up.
.TP 
-Ssitesfile
Use sitesfile as the 
.IR sites (5)
file rather than the default "sites".
.TP
-Rrestartfile
Use restartfile as the
.IR isis.rc (5)
file instead of "isis.rc".
.TP
-t
Do a total restart regardless of other ISIS sites, listed in the sites file,
that are already running. 
.I Warning:
this site will be unable to contact 
the already running sites.
.TP
-csiteno/incarn
Do a partial restart using as the coordinator
the site with site number siteno and
incarnation number incarn. Normally ISIS chooses its coordinator 
automatically.
.TP
-Hsiteno
Initialize this sites using siteno as the site number, which must be listed in
the sites file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
protos(1), isis.rc(5), sites(5), rc.local(8), ISIS(3), isis/MCHTYPE/run_demos/isis.rc,
isis/MCHTYPE/run_demos/sites
