.TH XMGR 1  "1 February 1986" XMGR "ISIS COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
xmgr \- ISIS transaction manager daemon.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmgr 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xmgr
program  is run from within the isis.rc file and handles transactional commit.
It is normally idle if transactions are not being used and need only be run on
sites that intend to use the ISIS transactional tools.
A typical restart sequence in which xmgr is started is illustrated below:
.nf
% isis
Site 4 (fafnir.cs.cornell.edu): isis is restarting...
Is anyone there?
... found no operational sites, checking again just in case
Is anyone there?
site 4 (fafnir.cs.cornell.edu) doing a total restart
../bin/protos <isis-protos> -d/usr/u/isis/DEVEL/SUN4/run_demos/#.logdir
../bin/rexec <isis-rexec> 1653 
../bin/rmgr <isis-rmgr> 1653 
../bin/lmgr <isis-lmgr> 1653 
../bin/xmgr <isis-xmgr> 1653 
Site 4/0 is up!
site view has viewid 4/1
    fafnir.cs.cornell.edu         [site_no 4  site_incarn 0]
Transaction Manager: checking that lmgr is initialized...
Log Manager: Startup Completed (exiting normally)
isis: detected termination of <../bin/lmgr>
Transaction Manager: lmgr initialized, resuming xmgr startup seq...
Transaction Manager (xmgr): initialization complete.
.fi

Note that the coresponding isis.rc file does not specify 1653 as an argument to 
the xmgr command, this is added by the system when it runs the xmgr daemon.

The xmgr program makes use of the lmgr program and should only be run if
lmgr is being used, too.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

ISIS(3), isis(1)
